Hello, welcome back.
I hope you enjoyed the challenge
and I hope it was successful.
In this video, I'd like to
go over that challenge and
give you one solution to it.
So I'm in the section 9 workspace
in the challenge solution project.
In your case, you're going to have
this solution already, but we'll
work through it together here.
So let's say where are we.
Well, we need some
sort of data structure.
We need a list, we need a collection
that the user can type integers
and we can store it into, right.
So in this case, we're
going to use a vector.
It's the only one we know
right now, and it's a really
easy and logical one to use.
So in order to use a vector,
we need to include vector.
So I'll do that right now.
And obviously, we need to declare
a vector that's going to hold
the numbers and we also need to
declare a character that's where
we're going to store whatever
they typed on the keyboard.
So let's declare those
2 variables right now.
We could call this
vector whatever we like.
I'll just call it vector.
Remember, it's a vector of integers.
And I'll call it numbers.
We could call it data. You could call it whatever you like.
And I'm initializing it to empty.
And then I've got a character,
which I'll call selection.
And I'll also initialize
that to empty.
What we're going to do is
we're going to read the user's
choice into that variable.
Okay, so where are we now.
Remember, what we're going
to do is we're going to
display the menu to the user.
We're going to ask them for a choice,
depending on what they choose.
We'll do something or other.
And then at the end of this do
loop, we want to keep looping
while they haven't pressed q, right
either uppercase or lowercase.
So let's write that logic first.
Let's start with baby steps.
Here's the do loop, and
then we want to do while the
selection is not equal to.
Remember, in this case, they
can type in an upper case
or a lowercase q, right.
So while it's not
equal to a lowercase q.
And again, those are characters,
so make sure they're single quotes
not double quotes and the selection
is not equal to an uppercase q.
There's a semicolon here at the
end of this while loop right
there, this do while loop.
That should take care of our logic.
Now what we want to do in
here is we want to display
that menu right, right away.
That's the first thing we
want to do unconditionally.
So what I'm going to do is I'm
going to copy and paste my menu
code right here which is just
a bunch of output statements.
And we're reading the selection.
So we can test this right now.
We're going to display print a
number, add a number, all the menu
choices that you saw in the demo.
And then we're going to ask them to
enter a choice, and we're going to
read that choice into selection, which
is that character variable right here.
So what do I expect here.
Well, I expect that if the
user types lower or uppercase
q, the program will end.
If they type anything else, we
should display the menu again
and again and again, asking for
enter another choice, right.
So let's try that.
We'll build and run.
And there's the menu, print
numbers, add a number,
display number and so forth.
So let's say we enter p,
we get the menu again.
Uppercase p same thing.
A 1, a 3, a 5, it
doesn't matter, anything.
Now what we're really interested in
is we want the program to quit when
I press both qs, upper and lower.
So I'm going to press
lowercase q, program stops.
Perfect.
I'm going to test this again with
an uppercase q, program stops again.
Perfect.
Make sure you test both of
them because a lot of times.
I've seen typos like this.
And the little test with a lowercase
q, and it quits correctly but
then the uppercase q doesn't work.
So make sure that you test
everything really well.
Now this is where we're at right here.
We know the user has
selected something, right.
So what do we need here.
Well, we need some selection logic.
We need to say well if you picked
p, I want to do some stuff.
If you picked a, I want
to do something else.
We have a choice.
We could use a switch statement
really easily because these are
going to be character literals.
This is a character so.
I could do a switch off of
selection and they say case p, p
cast case a, a case m and m and by
that i mean uppercase lowercase.
And that'll be fine.
What I'm going to do is I'm
going to use an if else if ladder
because it's usually what you'll
see out there in this kind of
example over the case statement.
Okay, so let's try that.
First thing, let's
deal with the print.
So we've got the selection here.
So here I want to say if the
selection is equal to, let's say,
an uppercase p or the selection
is equal to a lowercase p.
And I'm going to do a block
statement here because I'm going
to write some extra code here.
So that's where we're at.
If the user typed the p whether
it's upper or lower case we're going
to execute this code right here.
What does this code say, print
all the numbers in the list.
What's my list numbers right here.
What's the best way to do that
range based for loop, no question.
Really, really easy.
There's one thing we need
to take care of though.
If that list is empty, we need
to tell the user list is empty.
We can do that now or we can
do it in an else statement.
I'm going to do it right
now so I'm going to say
remember indent right here.
I'm going to say if numbers
is the vector.size is the
method that returns the size.
If that returns a 0, what's going
on, the list is empty, right.
So I'm just going to say cout.
And again, indent under
the if cout, the 2 square
brackets with nothing in it.
And then I'll just say list is empty.
That's it, endline and
that's the if part.
Now what about the else part.
The else part's going to have a
few more statements than this.
So I'm just going to say else and
then again a block statement here.
I could have said if numbers.size
is not equal to 0, and then put
this code up here and then the l
sort of in the empty part, both
ways are absolutely perfectly
logical, and they're both correct
But in this case right now I'm here.
So when am I in here I'm in here when
the the size is not equal to 0, right.
In other words, there
is stuff in that vector.
So what I want to do
now is print it out.
I want to print it out on a
nice way with those brackets.
So I'm just going to say cout and
I'm going to print out that left
bracket followed by a space, no
end line because I want to print
the numbers right next to it.
And then I want to close
it off with an end bracket.
Now what I want to do here in
the middle is print out those
numbers, one after the other
with a space between them.
How do I do that, what's the best way
to do that a range based for loop.
So let's do that for auto,
I'll call the variable num,
and the collection is numbers.
And what do I do for each
one of those, display it.
Cout num followed by a space.
That should do it.
Okay, now right here, I definitely
want to do an endline that
will take me to the next line.
Now let me clean this up so we can
see the structure a little better.
And I'll get rid of
this space as well.
So look what's going on here.
We entered a selection.
The selection is p so the user wants
to print out all those elements.
We know that there is either nothing
in the list in which case we do this.
Otherwise, we print out all
the numbers in the list.
Right now the list is empty the first
time I do this because I haven't
been able to add anything right.
So we'll run it, and, when I select
p, it should say list is empty.
There it is.
The list is empty then I get the
menu again, that's important.
I'm going to quit.
Now let's test this with a list that's
not empty what we'll do is we'll
just come right up here and just put
some stuff in there, 1 2 3 4, right.
The list is definitely not empty now.
So we'll run this and we
expect to get 1 2 3 4 right
in the brackets, perfect.
So looks like our print is done.
I'll quit, and we'll
move on to the next one.
Now we're here.
It wasn't p.
Let's assume that it wasn't p, right.
So what we'll do is we'll
create the else if ladder here.
So I'll say else if the selection
is an a uppercase or the
selection is a lowercase a, then
we want to worry about adding
something to the list, right.
So I've got my block statement here.
So what do I do here.
Well, I need to ask the user to enter
a number and then add it to my vector.
So I need a variable, int.
Let's call it num to add.
That's what we're going
to read the number into.
We'll initialize it to 0, and we'll
say we'll output to the user enter
an integer to add to the list.
Something like that.
And what we'll do is we'll
read it into num to add.
So now we've got the
number that we want to add.
What do we want to add it
to, the vector numbers.
How do you do that,
numbers.pushback, right.
We're going to push it to the back
of the vector,
and we're going to push num to add, just like that.
And then we're going to tell the
user we've added their number.
So I'll just say something
let's see out num to add.
Let's say just simple added.
And we'll put an endline here.
That looks pretty good.
We can test that out as well.
What I'll do is I'll come
up here and I'll initialize
that vector again to empty.
We'll get rid of that
test right there.
So there we go.
The vector is empty again.
We'll run this, and
let's add we'll press a.
Enter an integer to add
to the list, perfect.
We'll type in an integer 10.
We're reading that into num
to add now and pushing it
to the back of the vector.
It says here 10 added.
Now if we print the numbers again
with the p option, we should
see a list with a 10 in it.
Awesome.
That's exactly what we have.
Let's add a 20.
And we'll print it again.
Now we've got a 10 and a 20.
Exactly like what we expected.
Okay, we'll press q to quit.
So we're working our way
down these options here.
The next one would be
m to display the mean.
So let's do that.
Again, we'll say else.
Remember, that's that else if else
ladder else if the selection is
equal to a capital m character
or the selection is equal to
the lowercase m character.
In this case, I want a block
statement and in here is where
we're going to calculate the mean.
Okay, just like we did before in some
of the other examples that we've done.
How do you calculate a mean.
Well, we need a running total, right.
We add them all up and we
divide by the size of how
many elements are there.
But we need to be
careful of one thing.
We have to be sure that the
vector is not empty, right.
So we'll do this test again.
So we'll say if numbers.size is equal
to 0, we'll simply say cout, and we
could do this in a block statement
but I'll just use a single statement.
We'll say unable to calculate mean,
no data or something like that.
And we'll finish it
off with an endline.
Now we've got our else
statement in a block.
We need to do more
than one thing here.
So now the only time we're
ever going to be in here
is if there is data, right.
There's stuff in the vector.
There are integers in there.
So what do we do, we need to
calculate, add them all up.
So let's create a variable called
total, and it's an integer is fine.
And now what do we do, so we
loop through that vector again,
and we total up all the numbers.
So let's use another range
base for loop, that's
perfect for this situation.
Let's say num and the
collection again is numbers.
And what do we do at each iteration,
we just say total equals total
plus that number, perfect.
Now we're out of that loop.
Remember, don't indent here.
We're going here because we don't
have a block statement there.
And now we just simply
say cout the mean, let me
clean that up the mean is.
And what we can do here
is we can actually do the
calculation right in line.
We could just say total divided by
numbers.size which is the amount
of data in that vector, endline.
Okay, now that's almost correct
but it's not quite correct.
There's a little error here.
And if you remember what it is,
we've got an integer total being
divided by an integer size.
So we're going to do
integer division here.
So this is where a good
test case comes in handy.
Let's run this, and let's type in,
let's add a 1 and we'll add a 2.
Let's print our list, 1 and 2.
Let's take the mean, we
expect 1.5, we get a 1.
That's because we're doing integer
division instead of double division.
So let me quit here.
We need to provide a static cast
here of one of these 2 guys.
So we'll just do this so we'll stay
static_cast to a double and of total.
That's it.
We'll run this again.
Let's add a number one.
Let's add another number 2.
Print them out, make sure we have the
one and the 2 in there, yes we do.
Let's take the mean.
Now we expect 1.5.
Now we've got 1.5.
Okay, so the 2 pieces left are
smallest and largest and this
video is getting a little long.
So I'm going to stop this here.
And I'll join you in the next video
where we'll do the last few pieces.